This is the SandBox, a page anyone can edit to learn how to use the wiki.

# report plugin test

this lists the IP fields on the nodes pages.

<table>
<tr><th>#</th><th>hostname</th><th>IP</th><th>IPv6</th><th>MAC</th></tr>
[[!report pages="nodes/* and (field(IP *) or field(IPv6 *))" template="iptable" headers="Known nodes IPs"]]
</table>

# field template tests

--YAML--
IP: 1.2.3.4
hostname: baz
--YAML--


hostname
: {{$hostname}}

IP
: {{$IP}}


# graph tests

[[!graph  src="a -> b -> c; a -> c;"]]

[[!graph  src=""""
google [ href="http://google.com/" ]
sandbox [ href=[[SandBox]] ]
help [ href=[[ikiwiki/formatting]] ]
newpage [ href=[[NewPage]] ]

google -> sandbox -> help -> newpage -> help -> google;
""""]]

----

Mini map.  Pourquoi elle se tasse pas à droite?
Save pour prendre en compte le dernier commit via git?
[[!osm right]]

Here's a paragraph.

Here's another one with *emphasised* text.

# Header

## Subheader

### Subsubsub header

#### Sub sub sub sub header

##### Sub ... #5 header

###### Sub ... #6 header

> This is a blockquote.
>
> This is the first level of quoting.
>
> > This is nested blockquote.
>
> Back to the first level.

Numbered list 

1. First item.
1. Another.
1. And another..

Bulleted list

* *item*
* item



[[ikiwiki/WikiLink]]

[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2011 Antoine Beaupré"]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|meta/gfdl]]."]]"""]]
