*************************************
**Relationship between Watts and dBm :**
*************************************

The watt is a measure of power.

The dBm is a logaritmic representation of gain.

The difference in dBm between two power levels is 10(log p1/p2)

Everytime the power doubles, we add 3 dBm

The reference is 0dBm = 1 mW

 Maximum transmitter power versus largest antenna table for PTMP:
      
     Radio Power            Antenna gain        EIRP in watts

      30dBm 1W                 6dBi                  3.98
      27dBm 500mW              9dBi                  3.98
      24dBm 250mW             12dBi                  3.98
      20dBm 100mW             15dBi                  3.98
      17dBm 50mW              18dBi                  3.98
      14dBm 25mW              21dBi                  3.98
      10dBm 10mW              24dBi                  3.98

*****
**Antenna Connectors and Cable**
*****

*CONNECTORS ON ROUTERS*

There are 3 types of connectors used :

1- The RP-SMA (reverse polarity SMA) is the connector used on most indoor units.
It is small, inexpensive, but cannot accommodate large cable.
insert picture:

2- The N connector is mostly used in the professional field.
It is robust, and suitable for outdoor use.
insert picture:

3- The RP-TNC is in the middle and was mostly only used on the Linksys WRT-54G.
insert picture:

To install connectors to cables, you need a crimper. 
Very seldom solder is used, it often cause corrosion in harsh environments.
I have tools and connectors if you need them. (Richard)

*CABLES*
 
Mainly there is also 3 type of cable: all of them have an impedance of 50 ohms.
The attenuation of signal in the cable is more significant at higher frequencies.
Almost 70% more loss at 5.8Ghz than at 2.4Ghz.
These cables cannot be bent or squeezed. We have to be careful using gun tackers on them.

1- RG174U: this cable is the smallest we use. It has 2.5mm diameter and is used for very short distances.
It's a high loss cable (1.4db/m at 2.4Ghz) so we use it where we need a short and flexible cable.
It fits very well on the RP-SMA connector.

2- RG58 (or LMR195 high quality) varies between 4.7mm and 5.4mm in diameter. It loses .8db/m at 2.4Ghz, so it is suitable for medium distances (up to 10 feet is ok)


3- RG8 (or LMR400 high quality) is 10mm in diameter. It loses .2db/m at 2.4Ghz, so it is suitable for medium distances (up to 50 feet is ok)
this cable is not flexible at all and can only accept N connectors size.


