[[!toc levels=3]]

# Overall configuration

This wiki was created using the default [[!iki setup]]
instructions. The resulting .setup file is available
through the setup branch of the git checkout in case this wiki needs to be
reconstructed. 

See the branchable tab above to clone this wiki.

## Ikiwiki and extensions

ikiwiki was installed through the [[!debpkg ikiwiki]] debian package. We are running version at least 3.0, and we recommend running backports if not running testing/unstable. Some of the packages suggested by ikiwiki were also necessary for extra functionality:

 * [[!debpkg libsort-naturally-perl]]
 * [[!debpkg libtext-wikicreole-perl]]
 * [[!debpkg libsearch-xapian-perl]]
 * [[!debpkg xapian-omega]]

All the recommended packages were installed.

## Apache and configuration

I originally ran this straight out of my ~/public_html directory, but now we have a real virtual host:

    <VirtualHost *:80>
        ServerName mesh.openisp.ca
        DocumentRoot /home/mtl-mesh/public_html
    
        <Directory "/home/mtl-mesh/public_html/">
            Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews ExecCGI
            AllowOverride None
            Order allow,deny
            Allow from all
            AddHandler cgi-script .cgi
    	ErrorDocument 404 /ikiwiki.cgi
        </Directory>
    
        Alias /repository.git /home/mtl-mesh/repository.git
    
        <Directory "/home/mtl-mesh/repository.git">
            AllowOverride None
            Order allow,deny
            Allow from all
        </Directory>
    </VirtualHost>

## Publishing the wiki source

To publish the source, I use a regular HTTP server. For this, I had to
change the post-update hook as described
[[!iki todo/call_git-update-server-info_from_post-udpate_hook desc="here"]],
which means specifically changing the git-wrapper parameter to:

	git_wrapper => '/home/mtl-mesh/repository.git/hooks/post-update.ikiwiki

then creating the post-update hook with the following content:

    #!/bin/sh
    
    ./hooks/post-update.ikiwiki
    
    exec git update-server-info

... and setting it executable. Then the URL of the repository can be
published through the repolist plugin:

	repositories => [qw{http://mesh.openisp.ca/repository.git/}],

The above url works because of the `Alias` directive in the above
Apache configuration.

See [[meta/Replication]] for instructions on how to replicate this wiki.

## HTTP acceleration and performance

First, [[ikiwiki]] is designed to serve static pages, which is very efficient. Unless the wiki gets edited a **lot**, there should be no performance issues hosting it. Also, the wiki emits  based on the content, which means that pages are cached by proxies and your browser will not fetch new data until it is told so or the page changes, which is very useful. This seems to be the default Apache configuration on my machine...

## License

The wiki content is under GFDL, as detailed in the footer. A [[!iki plugins/meta]] tag is in every page to document that fact, and that is enforced through the edit templates below.

## Theme

The [[!iki plugins/theme]] (actiontabs) was slightly tweaked to have the footer display properly, based on the work at the [[GNU HURD wiki|http://www.bddebian.com/~hurd-web/]]. For this, the [[local.css]] file was created and can be modified through git.

# Plugins

## Enabled plugins

On top of the default plugins, the following plugins are enabled in
the wiki:

* [[!iki plugins/404]]
* [[!iki plugins/editdiff]]
* [[!iki plugins/edittemplate]] - used for the [[templates/node]] template
* [[!iki plugins/getsource]]
* [[!iki plugins/headinganchors]]
* [[!iki plugins/mirrorlist]]
* [[!iki plugins/relativedate]]
* [[!iki plugins/recentchangesdiff]]
* [[!iki plugins/rename]]
* [[!iki plugins/remove]]
* [[!iki plugins/search]]
* [[!iki plugins/sortnaturally]]
* [[!iki plugins/theme]] - using the actiontabs theme
* [[!iki plugins/userlist]]
* [[!iki plugins/contrib/osm]] - the OSM integration here, get the code at `git://src.anarcat.ath.cx/ikiwiki-osm.git`

... and more, see the setup file.

## Possible plugins to enable

* [[!iki plugins/anonok]] - may provoke a deluge of spam
* [[!iki plugins/favicon]] - once we have an icon (but can't we just edit favicon.ico in the root of the wiki?)
* [[!iki plugins/format]] - for different markup types in a page
* [[!iki plugins/highlight]] - source code hilighting
* [[!iki plugins/mirrorlist]] - if/when we get mirrors of this wiki

# Templates

This section documents which templates are available and to what pages they apply, see also the [[!iki plugins/editemplate]] plugin.

 * [[!edittemplate template="templates/node" match="nodes/*"]]
 * [[!edittemplate template="templates/link" match="links/*"]]

# Multiple committers

The [[!iki rcs/git]] page details a bit of the git internals of ikiwiki, but doesn't explain clearly how to do such a setup. In order to allow multiple committers, I therefore had to go through a few hoops to be able to allow the web interface, myself and others to push commits to the repository.

First, create the sandbox user:

    adduser --system --group mtl-mesh

Those bits ensure the wrappers are suid with the group.

	# group for wrappers to run in
	wrappergroup => 'mtl-mesh',

Then the git repository (repository.git) needs to be marked as shared so that permissions are kept right:

    git config core.sharedRepository group
    chmod -R g+ws .

To allow users to push to the repository, use:

    adduser anarcat mtl-mesh

# CIA.vc notifications

I am using the
[Koumbit git-hooks](https://redmine.koumbit.net/projects/git-hooks) to
do CIA.vc notifications. To deploy the script, install both the
`ciabot.pl` and `ciabot-post-receive` hooks in the `source.git/hooks`
directory. It is important that both script be in the same
directory. Symlink the `post-receive` hook in place:

    ln -s ciabot-post-receive post-receive

.. and configure the script according to your preference:

    git config hooks.ciaproject reseaulibre
    git config hooks.ciafrom ciabot@marcos.reseaulibre.ca

We use email notifications because the potentially disconnected nature
of the mesh.

# Other tools

* [[!iki tips/inside_dot_ikiwiki]] - good tips on how to interact with ikiwiki's metadata

[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2011 Antoine Beaupré"]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|meta/gfdl]]."]]"""]]
