[[!meta title="Câblage et conncteurs"]]

******
# Câblage
******
Normalement on veux installer un câble réseau avec PoE.
Alors un seul câble suffit si le routeur est sur le toit.
Ce type de câble doit être conçu pour l'extérieur.
Il doit aussi être blindé pour protéger les équipements.

On peux toujours installer un câble pour l'intérieur, mais il sèchera après quelques années.

Tableau de longueur de câble réseau vs. puissance et voltage:

[[!img UBNT_POE_Cable_Lengths.pdf.png size="950x"]]

Source: http://store.freenet-antennas.com.au/documents/UBNT_POE_Cable_Lengths.pdf



*****
# Connectors
*****

## Antenna connectors on routers

To install connectors to cables, you need a crimper.  Very seldom solder is used, it often cause corrosion in harsh environments.

> I have tools and connectors if you need them. (Richard)

There are 3 types of connectors used :

### RP-SMA

[[!img Gniazdo_RPSMA.jpg align="left" size="100x"]]

The [[RP-SMA|https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SMA_connector]] (reverse polarity SMA) is the connector used on most indoor units. It is small, inexpensive, but cannot accommodate large cable. 

It is often found on:

 * wireless cards
 * wireless routers

The RP-SMA connector is "reversed polarity" to keep people from connecting high-gain antennas (for example used by ham radio operators) to commodity hardware.

### N connectors

[[!img N_Connector.jpg align="left" size="100x"]]

The [[N connector|https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/N_connector]] is mostly used in the professional field and ham radio operators.

It is robust, and suitable for outdoor use.

It is specifically used for [[Cantennas|https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cantenna]] and ham radio UHF  transceivers.

### RP-TNC

[[!img RP-TNC-female.jpg align="left" size="100x"]]
[[!img RP-TNC-male.jpg align="left" size="100x"]]

The RP-TNC is a threaded version of the venerable BNC connector (used in older wired networks).

It is somehow between the SMA and N connectors.

It is most notably used on the Linksys WRT-54G devices, but pretty much *only* there.

It is not recommended to use this connector for new projects unless really necessary, as it is non-standard and harder to find. 

...
*****
## Antenna cables
*****
Mainly there is also 3 type of cable: all of them have an impedance of 50 ohms.
The attenuation of signal in the cable is more significant at higher frequencies.N_Connector.jpg
Almost 70% more loss at 5.8Ghz than at 2.4Ghz.
These cables cannot be sharply bent or squeezed. We have to be careful using gun tackers on them.

 1. RG174U: this cable is the smallest we use. It has 2.5mm diameter and is used for very short distances. It's a high loss cable (1.4db/m at 2.4Ghz) so we use it where we need a short and flexible cable. It fits very well on the RP-SMA connector.
 2. RG58 (or LMR195 high quality) varies between 4.7mm and 5.4mm in diameter. It loses .8db/m at 2.4Ghz, so it is suitable for medium distances (up to 10 feet is ok)
 3. RG8 (or LMR400 high quality) is 10mm in diameter. It loses .2db/m at 2.4Ghz, so it is suitable for medium distances (up to 50 feet is ok)
this cable is not flexible at all and can only accept N connectors size.
