[[!img folipon.jpg align="right" size="" alt="picture of me"]]

See <https://wiki.koumbit.net/TheAnarcat>. I can be easily contact on [identica](http://identi.ca/anarcat) and elsewhere (email @here works). 

[[!fortune]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

# IP allocations

Those are all the machines I manage, by IP address.

## Exhaustive allocation

<table>
<tr><th>#</th><th>hostname</th><th>IP</th><th>IPv6</th><th>MAC</th></tr>
[[!report pages="nodes/* and link(anarcat) and (field(IP *) or field(IPv6 *))" template="iptable" sort="field(IP)"]]
</table>

See [[policy/numbering]] for a more complete listing of nodes.

## Current allocation

In other words, current allocation plan:

 IPv6     | function | host
----------|----------|------
:0::1/128 | routeur  | roadkiller
:0::2/64  | relai    | boulette
:1::2/64  | laptop   | angela
:1::3/128 | AP       | plastik
:1::4/64  | ?        | plantpeople
:2::/64   | relai/AP? | easternblock
:3::/64   | relai/AP? | atlas

Problems with the above:

 * wtf?
 * relai shouldn't have a /64 but a /128 in a magic subnet reserved for that purpose (/64?)
 * laptop should either get an ip in a /64 from a router or be a /128 in the above subnet
 * AP should have a /64 to redistribute
 * plantpeople overlaps with the other /64

## Fixed up allocation plan

 IPv6     | function | host
----------|----------|------
:0::1/128 | routeur  | roadkiller (no change, announces 2001:1928:1:9::/64 to the mesh for its LAN)
:0::2/128 | relai    | boulette (change prefix from /64 to /128)
:X::/64   | AP       | plastik (new /64 to allocate, :0::3/128 on mesh interface if necessary)
:0::42/128 | mobile   | angela (laptop, switch to /128, change subnet to :0::)
:1::/64   | AP?      | plantpeople (change IP, keep /64 to avoid having to go there just now)
:2::/64   | AP?      | easternblock (no change)
:3::/64   | AP?      | atlas (no change)

# My nodes

Here is the list of nodes I operate.

## Operational nodes

[[!map pages="link(.) and nodes/* and tagged(up)"]]

## Planned nodes

[[!map pages="link(.) and nodes/* and tagged(planned)"]]

## Nodes in maintenance

[[!map pages="link(.) and nodes/* and tagged(down)"]]


# Todo

 * make the mesh work in my home (./) done with [[nodes/carton]]
 * fix IPv4 allocation to use `172.16.0.0/12` (./) done, see [[documentation/ip]]
 * test IPv6 autoconfiguration (./) done
 * setup a DHCP server and regular ad-hoc mode on [[carton]] (./) done!! i now use the mesh for my wifi access!
 * test ipv6 announcements [!] somehow this doesn't work as expected:
   * the /48 announcement was creating havoc: `[28187.091405] IPv6 addrconf: prefix with wrong length 48`
   * only the link-local prefix route gets added to the table, that's
     kind of weird
   * the packets don't actually go through to marcos
 * so next step: [[documentation/olsrd]] to propagate those routes between routers.
 * merge DMZ and mesh zones in [[nodes/roadkiller]]
 * configure second linksys router to join the mesh
 * install ganglia? or [[documentation/monitoring]]?
 * aggregate node parameters in a table automatically ([[!iki todo/internal_definition_list_support/]])

# Notes

(!) Power can apparently be pushed up to 84mW (20dBm), see [seattlewireless](http://www.seattlewireless.net/LinksysWrt54g).

# old battle plan

This was the battle plan to configure the OLSR routing and setup on
the roof, but it was short-circuited during the
[[meetings/2012-04-06-antenna-party]].

## Phase I: local tests

 1. setup [[documentation/ad-hoc]] mode between the laptop, the
 linksys and the n900
   * [!] problem here - the laptop doesn't support ad-hoc mode!! see
     [[!debbug 645055]]
   * (!) next step: setup olsrd on the n900, see <http://wiki.funkfeuer.at/index.php/OLSR_am_Nokia_N900>
 2. (./) setup [[documentation/olsrd]] between the nodes (OpenWRT and wired laptop configured)
 3. hookup the linksys to `roadkill.anarcat.ath.cx`, setup [[todo/vpn_gateways]] for outgoing?
 4. think about system-wide [[todo/numbering policy]] (and [[documentation/ipv6]]? - see <http://wiki.freifunk.net/6mesh.freifunk.net> for this)
 5. think about [[documentation/dns]] within the mesh

## Phase II: first link

 1. make panorama of roof
 1. test [opennet's firmware](https://wiki.opennet-initiative.de/wiki/Opennet_Firmware_NG) ([for ubiquity devices](https://wiki.opennet-initiative.de/wiki/AirOS-opennet))
 2. setup local test environment with martn with two antennas
 3. setup link between the two places
 4. at this point, [[todo/network topology]] should be clear and documented


[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2011 Antoine Beaupré"]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|meta/gfdl]]."]]"""]]

