I'm a random hacker from the 514. I come from a diverse background of interests, that make computing my main occupation. I'm an advocate for everything open source, freedom enabling, community oriented.  I also hold an amateur radio license, which extends my passion for radio to other frequencies.

Free the bits, make data love.

# My nodes

Here is the list of the nodes I operate.

## Operational nodes

[[!map pages="link(.) and nodes/* and tagged(up)"]]

## Planned nodes

[[!map pages="link(.) and nodes/* and tagged(planned)"]]

## Nodes in maintenance

[[!map pages="link(.) and nodes/* and tagged(down)"]]

# where I'm at

## At home

I am running batman on my rooftop (not yet installed) relay node, on its wireless and wired interfaces. I started configuring an internal router AP, running batman on its wired LAN switch, and a traditional AP on its wireless interface. The wan interface will help to serve Internet access in addition to mesh services to wireless clients.

For now, I've been using an MTU of 1472 on my batman interfaces, because I can't set an MTU higher than 1500 on wired interfaces in OpenWRT. Many searches have found no solution to this problem. According to batman-adv messages, with anything higher than 1472, I'm fragmenting packets.

In my tests with a Debian laptop, running batman, I'm able to route IP to and from all members of the mesh, my laptop, the router AP and the Bullet.

## Other places

I operate another site on St-Denis/Laurier at a friend's place. It will mostly be a replica of my home configuration, with a little less complexity on the internal segment.
