[[!toc levels=3]]

# Bug with 3 hop setup and OpenWRT outside of main bridge

With a previous configuration, I cannot ping the third hop in a three-hop relay. In my test setup, my laptop (angela, `192.168.3.44`) is connected through the mesh to a Linksys AP ([[carton]], `192.168.3.99`), which is strong enough to reach the Bullet on my roof ([[boulette]], `192.168.3.90`).

[[carton]] is configured to have batman outside of the main bridge,
`br-lan`. In effect, I have skipped the following instructions:

    uci set batman-adv.bat0.interfaces="wlan0 br-lan"
    uci set network.lan.ifname="eth0 bat0"

.. and I have assigned an IP to the bat0 interface.

Then carton can ping boulette, and angela can ping carton, but not boulette. I get `Destination port unreachable`, I assume because of that nasty firewall, because I see ARP requests go through fine. --[[anarcat]]

> anarcat, je n'ai pas 3 noeuds pour faire des tests de pings avec plusieurs hop. Cependant, j'ai trouve ceci dans la doc batman-adv, qui parle de ICMP avec batman-adv:
> 
> [[http://www.open-mesh.org/wiki/batman-adv/Understand-your-batman-adv-network/#ICMP]]
> 
> Fais-tu tes tests avec un ping IP normal, ou avec batctl?
> 
> Aussi interessant: [[http://www.open-mesh.org/wiki/batman-adv/Troubleshooting#Does-a-ping-to-the-other-node-via-the-mesh-work]]
> 
> --[[spoked]]
> 
> > This works now, the problem was I was trying to live outside the main bridge: don't try, you will fail. --[[anarcat]] 
> >
> > > Interesting. In my tests, I'm also "living outside the main bridge", but I don't have equipment to test another hop. Did you try batctl ping, before adding br-lan to batman interfaces? -- [[spoked]]
> > > 
> > > > Yes, I did: `batman ping` works. --[[anarcat]]

# Bug with regular ad-hoc access mode

So we can still reproduce the above bug with the complete configuration, probably even the [[howto|guides/openwrt+batman/]], by trying to connect to the AP with ad-hoc, without Batman. This could be useful for regular people or mobile devices, for example.

Configuration:

 1. configure an AP far away, named `boulette` (`192.168.3.90`)
 2. configure a powerful AP that can reach boulette, named `carton` (`192.168.3.99`)
 3. do basic [[ad-hoc]] and [[ip]] configuration on a laptop, named `angela`, which *can't* reach boulette directly but can reach `carton`
    * adhoc: `iwconfig wlan0 essid mesh-mtl channel 6 ap 02:51:48:72:03:11`
    * ip: `192.168.3.42`

Expected results:

 * carton pings boulette
 * angela pings carton
 * angela pings boulette through carton

Actual results:

 * carton pings boulette (./)
 * angela pings carton (./)
 * angela can't ping boulette [!] the carton returns `Destination port unreachable`

So it looks like the firewall on carton is kicking in. Note that angela *can* ping boulette if it joins the mesh with a batman configuration. --[[anarcat]]

## First test: trying to fix the firewall

following the routedap guide in the openwrt wiki

[[!format sh """
uci set network.wifi=interface
uci set network.wifi.proto=static
uci set network.wifi.ipaddr=192.168.2.1
uci set network.wifi.netmask=255.255.255.0
uci set wireless.@wifi-iface[0].network=wifi
"""]]

make sure the IP is different from all the others

fix the firewall:

[[!format sh """
uci add firewall zone
uci set firewall.@zone[2].name=wifi
uci set firewall.@zone[2].network=wifi
uci set firewall.@zone[2].input=ACCEPT
uci set firewall.@zone[2].output=ACCEPT
uci set firewall.@zone[2].forward=REJECT

uci add firewall forwarding
uci set firewall.@forwarding[1].src=wifi
uci set firewall.@forwarding[1].dest=lan
uci commit
ifup wifi
wifi
/etc/init.d/firewall restart
"""]]

the above yields some warnings:

    iptables: No chain/target/match by that name.
    iptables v1.4.10: Couldn't load target `zone_wifi':File not found

    Try `iptables -h' or 'iptables --help' for more information.
    iptables v1.4.10: Couldn't load target `zone_wifi_forward':File not found

    Try `iptables -h' or 'iptables --help' for more information.
    iptables v1.4.10: Couldn't load target `zone_wifi_prerouting':File not found

    Try `iptables -h' or 'iptables --help' for more information.
    iptables v1.4.10: Couldn't load target `zone_wifi_notrack':File not found

    Try `iptables -h' or 'iptables --help' for more information.
    iptables v1.4.10: Couldn't load target `zone_wifi_nat':File not found

optional DHCP config:

[[!format sh """
uci set dhcp.wifi=dhcp
uci set dhcp.wifi.interface=wifi
uci set dhcp.wifi.start=100
uci set dhcp.wifi.limit=150
uci set dhcp.wifi.leasetime=12h
uci commit
/etc/init.d/dnsmasq restart
"""]]

unfortunately, this breaks batman.

## Second test: trying to fix the bridge

Reverting the segregation of the lan/wifi interfaces:

[[!format sh """
uci set wireless.@wifi-iface[0].network=lan
uci set batman-adv.bat0.interfaces="br-lan"
uci set network.lan.ifname="eth0.0"
"""]]

This basically bricks the device. I then can't reach it on either the
wired or wireless port, with or without batman. batman pings don't even
work. --[[anarcat]]

## Third test: dropping the firewall

This is the way to do it, apparently: see the [[services]] page.
