[[!meta title="Babel configuration"]]

Babel is a routing protocol. It allows everyone to "announce" their routes (your local network prefix), or it can simply relay routing information to the other nodes. It works well on a wireless mesh network as well as on a wired network.

In the simplest configuration, your babel node might simply "relay" information and very little configuration is required. With IPv6, every device has a link-local address, and this is sufficient to route. If you also want to route IPv4 (ex: to share your Internet access to the general public), you will have to assign an IPv4 address to your device.

If you want to expose your local network to the mesh, you will probably want your devices to only relay routing information, and install babel on your main router. This way, all computers connected to that router will be able to access the mesh. We will talk more about routing later.

[[!toc levels=3]]

Installation
============

OpenWRT
-------

If you have not yet installed OpenWRT on your router, see [[flashing]]. It must also have the correct [[ad-hoc]] wireless configuration to link with other devices.

Install babel and the [[ipv6|documentation/ipv6]] kernel module:

    opkg install babeld kmod-ipv6

> (!) If you do not have network access, download the babel, kmod-ipv6
> and librt packages from the `packages/` directory at the same
> location where you got the images for [[documentation/flashing]]. Then you can
> copy the packages on the router with the following ssh command:
>
>     scp libpthread*.ipk kmod-ipv6*.ipk babeld*.ipk librt*.ipk root@192.168.1.1:
>     ssh root@192.168.1.1 "opkg install *.ipkg"

To make sure that babel starts on boot on the wireless interface:

    /etc/init.d/babeld enable
    uci delete babeld.wan.ignore

Configure the wireless interface with an IP and a proper `/32` netmask (`255.255.255.255`), see the
[[ip configuration|ip]] page for more information.

    uci set network.wan=interface
    uci set network.wan.ifname=wlan0
    uci set network.wan.proto=static
    uci set network.wan.ipaddr=172.16.0.123
    uci set network.wan.netmask=255.255.255.255

(!) Do not forget to save your changes!

    uci commit
    reboot & exit

To announce routes on the wired intefaces too:

    uci delete babeld.lan.ignore

The following UCI config can be imported using `uci import` and will record the above configuration:

    package babeld
    
    config general
            option local_server '33123'
    
    config filter
            option ignore 'true'
    
    config interface 'wan'

    config interface 'lan'

Note that we do not configure routing rules through UCI (hence the `ignore` setting on the `config filter` section), but instead
rely on the `/etc/babeld.conf` file, see below for config samples.

If you have a Nanostation M2 you can check this [config sample](/documentation/NSM2/#index3h1).

### Firewall configuration

It is important to configure your firewall properly to let the Babel
packets go through otherwise you will end up with problems like:

    Neighbour fe80::de9f:dbff:fe06:d5be dev wlan0 reach ff2f rxcost 257 txcost 65535 chan 1.

and `unreachable` routes. The solution is to add an entry in the
*marvelous* uci firewall:

    config rule
            option name             Allow-Babel
            option src              wan
            option dest_port        6696
            option proto            udp
            option target           ACCEPT

... this needs to be added to your `/etc/config/firewall` file and
then the firewall can be restarted with:

    /etc/init.d/firewall restart

> (!) While you are there, you might as well allow SSH access from the
> mesh for maintenance:
> 
>     config rule
>             option name             Allow-SSH-wan
>             option src              wan
>             option dest_port        22
>             option proto            tcp
>             option target           ACCEPT

### Simplest babeld.conf

If you followed all the other steps to get here and have a local LAN
still configured on your ethernet interface, you at the very least
want this one rule to avoid leaking those routes to the mesh:

    redistribute local ip 192.168.1.0/24 deny

This can be added to `/etc/babeld.conf`.

### Migrating away from a BATMAN install

If you had previously installed Batman, you will need to remove the
wireless interface from the batman bridge, and add it to babel:

    batctl if del wlan0
    uci set babeld.wlan0=interface

/!\ Warning: this may break your existing connexion and require a
reboot.

Debian
------

0. install package: `apt-get install babeld`
1. stop network manager
2. setup [[ad-hoc]] and babeld

        ifconfig wlan0 down
        iwconfig wlan0 mode ad-hoc essid reseaulibre.ca ap 02:CA:FF:EE:BA:BE channel 1
        ifconfig wlan0 up 172.16.0.43/32
        babeld -D wlan0

See [[policy/numbering]] to choose the proper IP above, but note the netmask (`255.255.255.255` or `/32`) that needs to be defined for babel to work.

###Network Manager

/!\ If you are currently using Network Manager on an IPv6 network, there seems to be a bug which makes Babel publish all routing cache entries. This shows up as huge routing tables full of static routes that may look a bit like this:

    2001:6f8:1055:deb::80 via fe80::94d6:9eff:fecc:2494 dev bat0  proto 42  metric 1024
    2607:f8b0:4007:801::100f via fe80::94d6:9eff:fecc:2494 dev bat0  proto 42  metric 1024
    2607:f8b0:400b:800::1017 via fe80::94d6:9eff:fecc:2494 dev bat0  proto 42  metric 1024
    2607:f8b0:400b:801::1000 via fe80::94d6:9eff:fecc:2494 dev bat0  proto 42  metric 1024
    2607:f8b0:400b:801::1001 via fe80::94d6:9eff:fecc:2494 dev bat0  proto 42  metric 1024
    2607:f8b0:400b:801::1002 via fe80::94d6:9eff:fecc:2494 dev bat0  proto 42  metric 1024
    ...

The possible workaround is to open the Network settings, select the IPv6 parameters page of your connection, click the Routes button and check "Ignore automatically obtained routes".

This bug is described at <https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=682616>

FreeBSD
-------

The FreeBSD port needs to be updated, as it is running an old version
of the software (1.2, 1.3.3 is current as of this writing).

Updating the port is pretty trivial. And I have submitted it in the
"GNATS" bug tracking system.

There are no startup scripts so you need to do that on your own. Also,
contrary to usual BSD practices, the port's configuration file is in
`/etc/babeld.conf` (instead of `/usr/local/etc`).

Optional
--------

`ahcpd -D wlan0` can be used to distribute IPs over the network (without announcing a gateway).

Configuration
=============

Regardless of the install method or platform, you need a
`babeld.conf`. This will decide which routes you will announce and
accept and so on, so it is rather important.

Basic open configuration
------------------------

For testing (and for open relays), this is the simplest `babeld.conf` configuration that will allow everything:

    redistribute metric 128

This will redistribute all your routes with a non-zero metric so they
do not override your default configuration.

It is useful to remember this, as it can also be passed on the
commandline directly, as such:

    babeld -d1 -C 'redistribute metric 128' wlan0

Another common configuration is to refuse the default route, which is:

    in ip 0.0.0.0/32 le 0 deny

This is especially important on routers that *do* have network access,
as babel will happily override existing routes in certain
configurations. See the babeld manpage for more information on those
rules.

Whitelisting netblocks
----------------------

Instead of blocking stuff we don't want, it can be easier to just
allow the stuff we want:

    redistribute local ip 172.16.0.0/12
    redistribute local deny

Blocking some announcements
---------------------------

The above will announce all routes, which is really not desirable sometimes, as it may leak your private LAN. To block such addresses, try:

    redistribute ip 192.168.1.0/24 deny
    redistribute local ip 192.168.1.0/24 deny

Complex router
--------------

Here's my configuration for [[nodes/roadkiller]]:

[[!format txt """
# mesh IPv6
redistribute local ip fd64:2c08:9fa7:1::1/128 metric 128
redistribute local ip fd64:2c08:9fa7::1/128 metric 128
redistribute ip fd64:2c08:9fa7::/48 metric 128
# mesh IPv4
redistribute local ip 172.16.0.1/32 metric 128
redistribute ip 172.16.0.0/12 ge 13 metric 128
# public IPv6
redistribute local ip 2001:1928:1:9::/128 metric 128
redistribute ip 2001:1928:1:9::/64 metric 128
# public IPv4
redistribute local ip 72.0.72.144/32 metric 128
# default route
redistribute ip 0.0.0.0/0 le 0 metric 128
# IPv6 default route
redistribute ip ::/4 metric 128
# refuse anything else not explicitely allowed
redistribute local deny
redistribute deny
"""]]

Other sample configurations
---------------------------

We are working with upstream to have a good default configuration
provided with the package, see
[this discussion](http://article.gmane.org/gmane.network.routing.babel.user/1049)
and the `babeld.conf.sample` file in anarcat's repository:

    git://src.anarcat.ath.cx/babeld

See also [OpenWRT's sample config](https://dev.openwrt.org/browser/packages/net/babel/files/babeld.conf).


Advantages of Babel over BATMAN
===============================

 1. no kernel module necessary, which means:
 2. no need to chase the OpenWRT trunk, and:
 3. multi-platform support (e.g. FreeBSD)
 4. uses real routing tables (easier to debug)
 5. tcpdump parses babel packets properly
 6. No need to change the MTU of some network interface to 1528, which means:
 7. Network interfaces can be edited with the web interface luci (mtu field does not accept values > 1500), which means:
 8. People afraid of command line and ssh could now configure their device
 9. most importantly: allows for an heterogeneous network with different protocols, as long as they talk IP and their routes are annonced through babeld

Babel is also used by [commotionwireless](https://commotionwireless.net/).

Troubleshooting
===============

Babel should generally "just work". You start it, and it starts
exchanging routes with its neighbors through IPv6 broadcast packets.

During your tests, give some time for Babel to synchronise. Things can
take a few seconds (count to 10) to synchronise.

Running babel manually
----------------------

Configure the wireless interface with a test IP (follow the [[ip configuration|ip]] to make those settings peristent, but make sure to use `255.255.255.255` as a netmask):

    ifconfig wlan0 up 172.16.0.43 netmask 255.255.255.255

To start babel on the console for testing:

    babeld -d1 wlan0

Note how you specify the interface names directly on the command line. The output should already show you neighbors, if there are any.

Seeing the babel routes
-----------------------

Basic operation of Babel involves talking with the regular kernel
routing table. If Babel sees a neighbor, it will add a route like this
to the routing tables:

    169.254.11.8 via 169.254.11.8 dev wlan0  proto 42 onlink

This basically means: *"I see neighbor 169.254.11.8 and it's on the
interface wlan0"*.

To show the routing table, use `ip -6 route show`. The full IPv6 routing table from the kernel can be shown with `route -A inet6`.

Getting more information from babel
-----------------------------------

From the
[FAQ](http://www.pps.univ-paris-diderot.fr/~jch/software/babel/faq.html):

You can ask Babel to dump its internal tables. With the standalone daemon, send a USR1 signal to the daemon to get it to dump its tables to the log file. With the quagga version, type

    show babel interface
    show babel neighbour
    show babel route

You can also start `babeld` with `-g 33123` to enable monitoring on `33123`, for example with:

    telnet ::1 33123

To print the current status only (instead of sending the USR1 kill signal to the process):

    nc :: 33123 | awk '{ if (/add/ || /BABEL/) { print } else { exit } }'

Tcpdump groks Babel starting with version 4.2.1. Wireshark has support since version 1.6.0.

Custom tools
------------

[babelstatus](http://redmine.bidon.ca/projects/reseaulibre-scripts/repository/raw/babelstatus.sh) will give you a more readable output of the routes exported by babel, and routes received from neighbours.

[sonar](http://git.twd.su/gitweb/?p=sonar;a=blob_plain;f=sonar;hb=refs/heads/master) will give you the details on connection quality with shiny colours.

Monitoring
----------

We have not yet adopted a particular monitoring method, we are still experimenting.

One option is to commit your babelstatus output in the wiki using a cron, from another machine that has ssh access to your babel node. When your routes change (i.e. a new route is added, or a node is up/down), the cron will commit the change and it will be announced automatically on IRC by the bot that tracks wiki changes.

For example:

Install babelstatus (and other useful tools):

    echo "src reseaulibre http://packages.reseaulibre.ca:8080/Routeurs/reseaulibre-openwrt/aa_beta/ar71xx/packages/" >> /etc/opkg.conf
    opkg update
    opkg install reseaulibre-mesh

(if you are using something else than ar71xx (Ubiquity Bullet/Nanostation), those packages contain only shell scripts at the moment.)

Clone the git repository of the wiki (may take some time) on a system that has git and can have ssh access to the nodes:

    git clone git://wiki.reseaulibre.ca/

Create (if necessary) a public key with no passphrase on the system that has a copy of the git repository:

    ssh-keygen

Copy the public key onto the node(s) that you want to monitor (assuming you do not already have keys in the file, otherwise add the key manually to the authorized_keys file, one key per line):

    scp ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub root@node.example.org:/etc/dropbear/authorized_keys

Create a page for your node. You probably want to do this using the wiki on the web, using the template on [[nodes]].

Test babelstatus and commit to git for the first time:

    cd wiki.reseaulibre.ca
    git pull
    mkdir nodes/YOUR-NODE
    ssh root@node.example.org babelstatus.sh > nodes/YOUR-NODE/babelstatus
    git add nodes/YOUR-NODE/babelstatus
    git commit -m "initial commit"
    git push

Automate the process using a cron

    crontab -e

Configure a cron entry such as:

    30 *  *   *   *     cd wiki.reseaulibre.ca && git pull && ssh root@latakia.net4.bidon.ca babelstatus.sh > nodes/bgm-latakia/babelstatus && ssh root@homs.net4.bidon.ca babelstatus.sh > nodes/bgm-homs/babelstatus && git commit -m "commit by cron, route change detected." nodes/bgm-latakia/babelstatus nodes/bgm-homs/babelstatus && git push

You will probably want to replace that by a shell script, but you get the idea.

Note that the cron is run only once per hour to avoid causing a high load on the git server if everyone starts doing the same thing.

References
==========

 * [Babel home page](http://www.pps.univ-paris-diderot.fr/~jch/software/babel/)
 * [HacDC setup notes](http://wiki.hacdc.org/index.php/Babel_Setup)
 * [[!rfc 6126]]
