We have created custom firmware images based on OpenWRT attitude adjustment. The aim of this firmware is to simplify the installation of the required configuration to join our network (ex: by installing by default packages such as kmod-ipv6 and babel).

[[!toc levels=3]]

# Download

You may find the latest Réseau libre firmware here:
[[http://packages.reseaulibre.ca:8080/Routeurs/reseaulibre-openwrt/]]

As of this writing, the firmware is built against Attitude Adjustment "beta2".

# Package "base" vs "mesh"

 * base: relates to the configuration of OpenWRT for reseaulibre specific's needs.  Insures that all prerequisite packages are installed
 * mesh: extra software and scripts specifically for the mesh functionality.

More documentation on the content of these packages [[here|documentation/compile#index2h1]]

# Extra packages

After flashing your device, if you need to install additional packages, you may need to modify your /etc/opkg.conf to use openwrt.org's package repository.

For example, for the ar71xx architecture, use:

    http://downloads.openwrt.org/attitude_adjustment/12.09-beta2/ar71xx/generic/packages/

# Building the firmware

See [[this guide|documentation/compile]] to compile this firmware

# Support & contact

It is in development and currently not the default recommended firmware.

If you want to contribute, please join us in the [[#reseaulibre|http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=reseaulibre]] Freenode.net IRC channel.

The firmware is managed by Geneviève (tahini).

# Bugs, todo ?

See the todo section in: [[documentation/compile]]
