[[!meta title="Flashing your device"]]

This page is designed to give you quick howtos to flash common
type of [[hardware]] devices that we recommend.

[[!toc levels=3]]

# Firmware downloads

Réseau Libre recommends the `attitude adjustment` beta release series of the OpenWRT project.

Depending on your [[hardware]], you must download the correct firmware version onto your computer, which we will use to flash the router in the next step.

Bullet M2
: [attitude_adjustment_beta2](http://downloads.openwrt.org/attitude_adjustment/12.09-beta2/ar71xx/generic/openwrt-ar71xx-generic-ubnt-bullet-m-squashfs-factory.bin)

Nanostation M2
: [attitude_adjustment_beta2](http://downloads.openwrt.org/attitude_adjustment/12.09-beta2/ar71xx/generic/openwrt-ar71xx-generic-ubnt-nano-m-squashfs-factory.bin)

TP-Link 1043ND
: [attitude_adjustment_beta2](http://downloads.openwrt.org/attitude_adjustment/12.09-beta2/ar71xx/generic/openwrt-ar71xx-generic-tl-wr1043nd-v1-squashfs-factory.bin)

See the excellent flashing guide on the Ubiquiti wiki: [Installing OpenWRT on NanoStations/Bullets](http://wiki.ubnt.com/Installing_OpenWRT_on_NanoStations/Bullets).

For more information on other devices, see the [table of hardware](http://wiki.openwrt.org/toh/start) on the OpenWRT
site, each device page will list which firmware you should use.

## Custom firmwares

(!) We are also developing custom firmware, if you feel like lending a hand, try out [those images](http://packages.reseaulibre.ca:8080/Routeurs/reseaulibre-openwrt/devel/aa_beta/).

# Flashing methods

You can flash your devices in many ways. The web interface is the easiest.

## Web interface

If your router is still functional, the easiest way is to flash the
device through the web interface. This works on most firmware, even
the proprietary ones shipped with the device.

During the upload, pay attention to the following:

* do not disconnect the network cable
* do not close your browser
* look at the LEDs pattern to see if they settle down
* keep a ping to the router running

(!) The default user/password of ubiquity devices is `ubnt/ubnt`.

## TFTP upload

This works by turning off the device and rebooting it while repeatedly
sending it the file over the network.

1. make sure network-manager is disabled: ''right click on the network
icon and uncheck `Enable networking`'' or:

        sudo service network-manager stop

> *[!] Warning: this could disable your internet access, so download
> the above images *before* you do this.*

1. connect the router with a network wire to your computer
2. configure an IP on your computer

        ifconfig eth0 192.168.1.2 up

3. send the new firmware through tftp repeatedly

 * with [[!debpkg atftp]] (prefered):

            atftp --trace --option "timeout 1" --tftp-timeout 1 --option "mode octet" --put --local-file openwrt-xxx-x.x-xxx.bin 192.168.1.1

 * with [[!debpkg netkit-tftp]]:
 
            $ tftp 192.168.1.1x
            tftp> binary
            tftp> rexmt 1
            tftp> timeout 1
            tftp> trace
            tftp> put openwrt.bin

4. reboot the router with the reset button pressed

If everything goes well, the screen should scroll fast and the device
should reboot.

IP may vary according to the hardware, here are the known IPs:

Ubiquity Bullet M2 / Nanostation M2
: 192.168.1.20

Linksys WRT54G
: 192.168.1.1

For other platforms (Mac, Windows, etc), see: <http://wiki.openwrt.org/doc/howto/generic.flashing.tftp>

## Upgrade d'une version précédente de OpenWRT

Si vous avez déjà OpenWRT, mais que vous voulez le flasher avec une autre version, vous pouvez utiliser la commande `sysupgrade`:

    ssh 192.168.1.1
    sysupgrade http:// ... /openwrt-blah-squashfs.trx

[!] Attention!! Il est très important de prendre l'image marquée `-sysupgrade` ou, si elle n'est pas disponible, le `.trx`.

[!] Attention! Si vous faites une mise à jour d'un routeur qui avait déjà `babel`, arrêter le service avant de lancer la mise à jour (/etc/init.d/babel stop). Sinon `sysupgrade` va arrêter babel avant de lancer la mise à jour, ce qui cause une interruption du réseau pendant 1-2 minutes.

[!] Attention! Ceci ne fonctionne pas bien sur les Linksys WRT54GLv1.1 (au moins). Essayer avec ceci la prochaine fois:

    mtd write /tmp/openwrt-brcm47xx-squashfs.trx linux && reboot

Si votre routeur n'a pas accès à internet, vous pouvez installer un petit serveur web sur votre ordinateur:

    sudo apt-get install nginx
    sudo cp openwrt-blah-squashfs.trx /usr/share/nginx/www/
    sudo /etc/init.d/nginx start

Puis vous spécifiez l'addresse de votre serveur sur votre PC connecté par ethernet sur un port LAN:

    sysupgrade http://192.168.1.2/openwrt-blah-squashfs.trx

Voir aussi [le guide complet](http://wiki.openwrt.org/doc/howto/generic.sysupgrade).

# After flashing the device

## Set a password!!

[!] Important: after you flash your device, the password will be reset and the device will be wide open!!! You NEED TO CHANGE THE PASSWORD! Use `pwgen` or another tool to generate a random password and set one using:

    passwd

Keep the password in a safe place, your password manager or your head, if the latter: train using it regularly otherwise you *will* forget and will have to do a password reset (see below).

(!) Note that this will DISABLE telnet and you will have to use SSH instead.

## Other configuration

* If you want a web interface, follow [the luci install instructions](http://wiki.openwrt.org/doc/howto/luci.essentials#installation)
* See the next [[documentation]] pages for the next steps for
  setting-up the mesh. Usually you want to setup [[ad-hoc]] mode.

# Password reset

In general, try to connect on the web interface at
<http://192.168.1.1> (a commonly used default IP), that may give you
an idea of the firmware that is running.

## OpenWRT firmwares

If you are lucky enough to have a [[OpenWRT]] device, you may be able
to reset the password using this simpler procedure:

1. Unplug the router's power cord.
2. Connect the router's WAN port directly to your PC.
3. Configure your PC with a static IP address

        ifconfig eth0:flash 192.168.1.2

4. Plug the power on and wait for the DMZ LED to light up.
5. While the DMZ LED is on immediately press any button (Reset and Secure Easy Setup will work) a few times .

If done right the DMZ LED will quickly flash 3 times every second.

You should be able to telnet to the router at 192.168.1.1 now (no
username and password).

### Simple tips to recover the router in failsafe mode

NOTE: The root file system in failsafe mode is the SquashFS partition
mounted in readonly mode. To switch to the normal writable root file
system run mount_root and make any changes. Run `mount_root` now.

Forgot/lost your password and you like to set a new one

    passwd

Forgot the routers IP address

    uci get network.lan.ipaddr

You accidentally run 'ipkg upgrade' or filled up the flash by
installing to big packages (clean the JFFS2 partition and start over)

    mtd -r erase rootfs_data

If you are done with failsafe mode power cycle the router and boot in normal mode.

# Other guides

* [[ddwrt install instructions|http://www.dd-wrt.com/wiki/index.php/Installation]]
* [[ddwrt bad flash recovery instructions|http://www.dd-wrt.com/wiki/index.php/Recover_from_a_bad_flash]]
