We are using different tools for different purposes. The simplest thing we can provide is to use [OpenVPN](https://openvpn.net) to provide client access to the mesh. The reason we used OpenVPN for this is that howtos are simpler to follow and it's easier to configure.

We are therefore using [tinc][] for mesh interconnection, as it is completely decentralised (as opposed to OpenVPN, which uses a client/server architecture). We can't use IPsec as it doesn't pass babel's IPv6 broadcasts properly. We could also have used tinc for simple client access, and instructions on how to do this (and therefore replace the OpenVPN instructions are welcome here).

[[!toc levels=2]]

tinc: interconnect disjoint mesh networks
=========================================

We recommend using [tinc][] to interconnect the mesh, for 2 reasons:

 1. it is deployed for use in the Freifunk mesh
 2. it supports full mesh routing (all nodes have access to all nodes,
    no client/server model)

tinc supports bridged mode like OpenVPN does, which allows
us to send Babel broadcasts across the network.

[tinc]: http://www.tinc-vpn.org/

Configuring one node
--------------------

The directory structure of tinc configuration files is important, so
you first need to create that:

    mkdir -p /etc/tinc/reseaulibre/hosts

Here we have created the `hosts` directory that will hold the node
configurations for the `reseaulibre` network. Then we need to create a
configuration file for this host in `/etc/tinc/reseaulibre/tinc.conf`:

    Name = roadkiller
    Mode = switch

> (!) This is necessary on FreeBSD:
> 
>     Device = /dev/tap0

The above configuration defines the current host, but we
need to create a configuration file in `hosts` on every
host in the tinc mesh, including the current host, for example in
`hosts/roadkiller`:

    Address = vpn.orangeseeds.org

And this is for my laptop in `hosts/angela`:

    Address = angela.anarcat.ath.cx

Note that we should *not* put `Subnet` blocks here since we are in
switch mode, see
[this post](http://www.tinc-vpn.org/pipermail/tinc/2012-September/003029.html)
for a discussion about this.

Encryption keys
---------------

Public/private encryption keys must be created on each host. Tinc 1.0 used RSA keys by default. Tinc 1.1 (since 1.1pre9?) generates both RSA and eleptic-curve (ECDSA).

For tinc 1.0:

    tincd -n reseaulibre -K

For tinc 1.1:

    tinc -n reseaulibre generate-keys

This will create a private key for the host in
`reseaulibre/rsa_key.priv` and add the public key material to the
`hosts/roadkiller` configuration file.

The public key for each host must be copied to each other host that tinc will connect to (in /etc/tinc/reseaulibre/hosts/[...]).

IP allocation
-------------

Each host in the network needs to have an IP allocated in the
mesh. This IP is assigned to the interface, so it needs to be
different than existing IPs you have configured on your network. This
is defined in the `tinc-up` startup script (to be put in
`/etc/tinc/reseaulibre/`):

    ifconfig $INTERFACE 172.16.242.43 netmask 255.255.255.255 up

The script needs to be made executable:

    chmod a+x tinc-up

For my laptop:

    ifconfig $INTERFACE 172.16.242.42 netmask 255.255.255.255 up

Note that we allocate IPs in a special netblock (arbitrarily
reserved). Those IPs won't be pingable, but can be used by babel to
establish its routes. To have them routable, you can make the netmask
a `/24`, but then it could interfere with other routes in the network.

Running tinc by hand
--------------------

To do your first tests, you may prefer to run it by hand, using:

    tincd -d4 -D -n reseaulibre

 * `-d4` is to enable good debugging
 * `-D` means to not detach as a daemon
 * `-n reseaulibre` means to start the reseaulibre network

Connecting with babel
---------------------

The resulting device can be added to the list of interfaces used by
Babel for its routing:

    babeld -D tap0

Since this is now in "switched" mode, babeld will pass announcements
through that device and add proper routing. Note that you will very
likely refuse routes from babel that interfere with the uplink, for
example to connect to roadkiller, you want this in your `babeld.conf`:

    in ip 72.0.72.144/32 deny
    in ip 172.16.0.0/12 le 12 deny
    in ip 2001:1928:1:9::/128 deny
    in ip 2001:1928:1:9::/64 deny

Note that we also block the BATMAN `/12` which interferes with our
regular point to point routing as, if it would be installed on the
tinc interface, it would actually block traffic as it would start to
issue arp requests that would eventually fail.

Getting a secure VPN connection with the mesh
---------------------------------------------

To make a VPN connexion to the mesh, you will need to have at least one peer configured with a trusted RSA key and a `ConnectTo` statement. Then this peer will send you the RSA keys it knows for the other hosts through that connexion and you can establish direct connexions to the other peers using those keys. 

To setup a connexion work [[nodes/roadkiller]], download the [[signed
certificate|documentation/vpn/roadkiller.asc]] and extract it in place:

    cd /etc/tinc/hosts/
    gpg roadkiller.asc > roadkiller

Make sure that your `/etc/tinc/reseaulibre/tinc.conf` has the following statement so that you connect to the host:

    ConnectTo = roadkiller

Automatic connection at startup
-------------------------------

In Debian, tinc will connect to the other peers automatically if you add the name of the network in `/etc/tinc/nets.boot`. For example:

    ## This file contains all names of the networks to be started on system startup.
    reseaulibre


Configuring in OpenWRT
-----------------------
In OpenWRT configuring tinc requires a mixture of the above directory structure and UCI configurations.

### Directory structure and keys

The reason OpenWRT still requires a directory structure under `/etc/` is that UCI cannot hold the key files, so first create the directories:

    mkdir -p /etc/tinc/reseaulibre/hosts

You may now generate your host keys:

    tincd -n reseaulibre -K

Now create a file to hold the key you have exchanged with another peer with the name of the host in the aforementioned directory:

    gpg /tmp/roadkiller.asc > /etc/tinc/reseaulibre/hosts/roadkiller

### IP Allocation

See the [[step above|/documentation/vpn/#index3h2]] as this is no different. You will need to create the `tinc-up` and `tinc-down` scripts.

### Creating the UCI file

This is where things get significantly different; we will configure Tinc by creating the following UCI configuration file in `/etc/config/tinc`:

	config tinc-net reseaulibre
		option enabled 1

		## Daemon Configuration	(cmd arguments)
		option generate_keys 0
		option key_size 2048
		#option logfile /tmp/log/tinc.reseaulibre.log
		#option debug 3

		## Server Configuration (tinc.conf)
		#option AddressFamily any
		#option BindToAddress 0.0.0.0
		#option BindToInterface lo

		list ConnectTo roadkiller

		option DirectOnly 0
		#option Forwarding internal
		option GraphDumpFile /tmp/log/tinc.reseaulibre.dot
		#option Hostnames 0
		#option IffOneQueue 0
		option Interface reseaulibre
		#option KeyExpire 3600
		#option MACExpire 600
		#option MaxTimeout 900
		option Mode switch

		option Name MYNODE

		#option PingInterval 60
		#option PingTimeout 5
		#option PriorityInheritance 0
		#option PrivateKeyFile /etc/tinc/reseaulibre/rsa_key.priv
		#option ProcessPriority normal
		#option ReplayWindow 16
		#option StrictSubnets 0
		#option TunnelServer 0
		#option UDPRcvBuf x
		#option UDPSndBuf x

	config tinc-host MYNODE
		option enabled 0

		option net reseaulibre

		list Address MYNODE.DOMAIN.TLD
		option Compression 1
		option Digest sha256

	config tinc-host roadkiller
		option enabled 1
		option net reseaulibre
		list Address vpn.anarc.at
		option Compression 1

		#option Cipher blowfish
		#option ClampMSS yes
		#option Digest sha1
		#option IndirectData 0
		#option MACLength 4
		#option PMTU 1514
		#option PMTUDiscovery yes
		#option Port 655
		#option Subnet 192.168.1.0/24

### Launching Tinc

You should now be able to launch tinc using `/etc/init.d/tinc start`. You can view some status information (most noteably the connected nodes and edges) by issuing a User1 and User2 signal via kill:

    killall -SIGUSR1 tincd; killall -SIGUSR2 tincd; logread

You can now [[configure babel|/documentation/vpn/#index5h2]] to work on the VPN.

References
----------

 * [tinc home page](http://www.tinc-vpn.org/)
 * [Tinc manual](http://www.tinc-vpn.org/documentation/tinc_toc)
 * [Example configuration](http://www.tinc-vpn.org/documentation/tinc_4.html#Example-configuration)
 * [Bridging example configuration](http://www.tinc-vpn.org/examples/bridging/) - note that we do not use bridges, as we rely on babel to do the magic, weird, but it seems to work
 * [OpenWRT Wiki Tinc Reference](http://wiki.openwrt.org/doc/howto/vpn.tinc)

OpenVPN: providing client access to the mesh
============================================

The following configurations use OpenVPN to allow external users to access the mesh directly.

/!\ Warning: this will give users to which you give access (through the SSL certificate) complete access to your internal network.

FreeBSD
-------

This is the server configuration, which we assume you are running on a router. It is quite FreeBSD-specific, but the OpenVPN configuration should be similar.

    pkg_add -r openvpn

Then add this to `/etc/rc.conf` to make sure the daemon is started on
boot:

    openvpn_enable="YES"      # set to YES to enable openvpn
    openvpn_if="tun"          # driver(s) to load, set to "tun", "tap" or "tun tap"

Load the tap device:

    kldload if_tun

You also need to add this to `/boot/loader.conf`:

    if_tun_load="YES"

using the easy-rsa package, here are my changes to the `vars` as
suggested in the [SSL howto][ca-howto].

[[!format diff """
--- vars.org    2012-05-15 00:54:05.000000000 -0400
+++ vars        2012-05-15 00:54:07.000000000 -0400
@@ -50,7 +50,7 @@
 # down TLS negotiation performance
 # as well as the one-time DH parms
 # generation process.
-export KEY_SIZE=1024
+export KEY_SIZE=2048

 # In how many days should the root CA key expire?
 export CA_EXPIRE=3650
@@ -61,8 +61,8 @@
 # These are the default values for fields
 # which will be placed in the certificate.
 # Don't leave any of these fields blank.
-export KEY_COUNTRY="US"
-export KEY_PROVINCE="CA"
-export KEY_CITY="SanFrancisco"
-export KEY_ORG="Fort-Funston"
-export KEY_EMAIL="me@myhost.mydomain"
+export KEY_COUNTRY="CA"
+export KEY_PROVINCE="QC"
+export KEY_CITY="Montreal"
+export KEY_ORG="Anarcat"
+export KEY_EMAIL="anarcat@orangeseeds.org"
"""]]

Then this series of easy commands:

    ./clean-all
    ./build-ca
    ./build-key-server myserver.example.com
    ./build-dh
    ./build-key client.example.com

(To be continued: the build-dh step is still generating that 2048 bit
prime - maybe a bad idea to be paranoid about that bit...)

Create the `/usr/local/etc/openvpn/openvpn.conf` file, [the FreeBSD
diary howto][openvpn] has a good sample file, but we are using a
different, point to point configuration. This is a minimal
configuration, see the OpenVPN configuration for more samples.

    dev tun
    ifconfig 192.168.100.1 192.168.100.2
    # not working?
    push "route 172.16.0.0 255.240.0.0"
    tls-server
    dh /usr/local/etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/2.0/keys/dh2048.pem
    ca /usr/local/etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/2.0/keys/ca.crt
    cert /usr/local/etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/2.0/keys/vpn.orangeseeds.org.crt
    key /usr/local/etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/2.0/keys/vpn.orangeseeds.org.key
    port 1194
    user nobody
    group nobody
    verb 3
    status openvpn-status.log

I was successful in using this configuration to access the mesh (and
indeed my internal network too) by adding extra routes on the client,
as it seems the `push` argument isn't working properly.

[openvpn-routed]: http://www.freebsddiary.org/openvpn-routed.php
[openvpn]: http://www.freebsddiary.org/openvpn.php
[ca-howto]: http://www.freebsddiary.org/openvpn-easy-rsa.php

Debian
------

This is the client configuration.

    apt-get install openvpn

I use pretty much the stock config in [the client part of the OpenVPN
howto][openvpn], but note that you can use ifup/down (and Network
Manager) to automatically start/stop OpenVPN instances depending on
network conditions, which is especially relevant on laptops, for
example.

I transfer the client certificate created in the last step of the above
FreeBSD config to the Debian client.

Other considerations
--------------------

The above configuration basically hardcodes routes and netblocks. This
means that the clients are necessarily on a different subnet than the
server, although routes are magically added to make sure this still
works.

A better option would be to use the [bridge mode configuration](http://openvpn.net/index.php/open-source/documentation/miscellaneous/76-ethernet-bridging.html) in
which clients are directly on the local network, which requires
OS-level bridge configuration outside of OpenVPN.

Another option would be to add tap0, the openvpn interface, to the mesh
itself, so that the BATMAN mesh would run on top of the VPN. This
seems rather perilous, and i was not able to run either BATMAN or
OpenVPN in bridge mode in FreeBSD.

# IP Allocation

**This template does not work and needs fixing, sorry**
~~
<table>
<tr><th>#</th><th>hostname</th><th>VPN</th><th>VPNv6</th></tr>
[[!report pages="nodes/* and (field(VPN *) or field(VPNv6 *))" template="iptable" sort="field(VPN)"]]
</table>
~~
