Zeroconf is a IETF standard protocol that allows stateless IP
autoconfiguration on a network without a DHCP server. RFC
[[!rfc 3927]] allocates the netblock 169.254/16 for this purposes and
RFC [[!rfc 5227]] details how the automatic configuration is
performed.

This, in turn, can be used to automatically assign IPs in the mesh and
could be considered instead of our current [policy](policy/numbering).

Zeroconf also allows servers to announce services to a local network
to alleviate the need for clients to lookup into DNS, search engines
or similar directories to find services. For example, Zeroconf can be
used to announce a local webserver or chat server on a LAN.

Usage
=====

This fairly new protocol (in Internet history) is well implemented
under different platforms.

Avahi automatic IP allocation
-----------------------------

(!) This should work on Linux and FreeBSD.

To automatically configure an IP on your interface:

    # sudo avahi-autoipd eth0
    Found user 'avahi-autoipd' (UID 103) and group 'avahi-autoipd' (GID 111).
    Successfully called chroot().
    Successfully dropped root privileges.
    Starting with address 169.254.6.31
    Callout BIND, address 169.254.6.31 on interface eth0
    Successfully claimed IP address 169.254.6.31

Above, the Avahi process tried a random IP adress, and tested if it
was allocated before assigning it to the interface.

Avahi DNS
---------

Magic DNS! Only works on the "local" network: works over the VPN, but
not non-local Babel links.

    # apt-get install avahi-utils
    # avahi-resolve-address fe80::7cd1:dbff:fea3:8fa6
    fe80::7cd1:dbff:fea3:8fa6       phil-ThinkPad-T500-3.local

This can also be added to your `nsswitch.conf` so that regular DNS
lookup routines will use Avahi for lookups:

    hosts: files mdns4_minimal [NOTFOUND=return] dns mdns4

References
==========

See the excellent [Arch
Linux](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Avahi) documentation.
